+++
title = "Safety-Aware Apprenticeship Learning"
date = 2020-03-23T15:00:31-04:00
draft = false
categories = ["Imitation Learning", "Inverse Reinforcement Learning", "Risk"]
summary = "By embedding a probabilistic model checking inside AL, propose a novel counterexample-guided approach that can ensure safety while retaining performance of learnt policy."
+++

### Source
[Zhou, Weichao, and Wenchao Li. "Safety-aware apprenticeship learning." International Conference on Computer Aided Verification. Springer, Cham, 2018.](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-96145-3_38)

### Authors
Name | Affiliation
--- | ---
Weichao Zhou | Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering - Boston University
Wenchao Li | Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering - Boston University

### Summary

* By embedding a probabilistic model checking inside AL, propose a novel counterexample-guided approach that can ensure safety while retaining performance of learnt policy.
* Address problem that “even if all demos are safe, agent may still end up learning an unsafe policy”, due to the bias in only positive demonstrated examples.
* Novel algorithm (CEGAL) CounterExample Guided Apprenticeship Learning
* Inspired by “formal inductive synthesis” and “counterexample-guided inductive synthesis”
* When a learnt policy does not satisfy the PCTL formula, we leverage counterexamples generated by the model checker to steer the policy search in AL.
* Safety property is specified in Probabilistic Computation Tree Logic (PCTL).
* PCTL is a logic for stating probabilistic quantification of properties. E.g. “is the probability that the agent reaches the unsafe area within 10 steps smaller than 5%?”
* Can use PCTL model checker to generate counter examples - e.g. the model checker can generate a policy with “probability agent reaches unsafe area within 10 steps is larger than 5%”
* Counterexample generation can be viewed as supplementing negative examples for the learner. Thus, the learner will try to find a policy that not only imitates the expert’s demos, but also stays away from the failure scenarios as captured by the counterexamples.
